# CPTR220 Final Exam

Your final exam project is to create an ajax driven web application which displays grade information for selected students from a gradebook stored in an SQL database.
This project will require skills from all four major parts of the course: HTML, CSS, Server Side Programming (PHP), and Client Side Programming (JavaScript).  
Here are the specific things your implementation must include.

## Assignment Specifications

* Create an HTML file named **gradebook.html** which is loaded once at the start of the application.
    This file provides the framework for selecting a student from the grade book and then displaying that student's grades on any assignments.
    The file should only contain HTML and no PHP.
* Create a CSS file named **gradebook.css** which styles your HTML.
    In your CSS styles, make use of the box model (height/width/position/margins/etc), font styles, and a variety of selectors and pseudo selectors.
* Create a PHP file named **gradebook.php** to query the database and respond to your Ajax calls.
    You will need to handle at least two different Ajax calls -- one to get a list of students that the user can select from, and one to get the grades for a given student.
    You should transmit the data back to your client-side program as HTML, JSON or XML.
* Create a JavaScript file named **gradebook.js** to handle events generated by user interactions with your HTML file, make the Ajax calls to your PHP script, and decode and display the results in your HTML document.

Additional notes:

* Be sure to utilize appropriate web standards and validate your HTML and CSS (include validation links).
* Before you begin the assignment, estimate the time you believe it will take you to complete the assignment.
    Then log your time and submit both your initial estimate and the final time that it took.

## Setup Instructions

For both your local copy and your production VM will need the database loaded into the _gradebook_ table.
The instructions are for Vagrant, but are similar for your production VM.

Now load the library database into your MySQL workspace by completing the following.
Make sure your vagrant VM is running.
Open up [phpmyadmin](http://192.168.33.220/phpmyadmin) log in using your database user (dbuser) and password (test123).
Navigate to _gradebook_ database and import the following file:

* public/exams/final/gradebook.sql

Repeat the process for your production VM after adding the gradebook database.
Run the following commands on your production VM to get the gradebook database.

```sh
mysql -uroot -ptest123 -e "CREATE DATABASE gradebook"
mysql -uroot -ptest123 -e "grant all privileges on gradebook.* to 'dbuser'@'localhost' identified by 'test123'"
```

**Questions?**

Ask your instructor right away so that you don't waste time going down a dead end.
